Today is the happiest day
for all of you, for the whole universe,
because Shri Ganesha was created.
He was created to emit auspiciousness
through His ‘Chaitanya’ [Hindi/Sanskrit meaning Divine Vibrations].
First, the whole cosmos was filled
with this ‘Chaitanyasrishti’ [Hindi/Sanskrit meaning creation of Divine Vibrations].
Then Brahma Deva came into play, and He created all the matter.
But
the greatest blessings of the Divine Power
was to symbolize ‘Chaitanya’,
and this Chaitanya has many aspects,
but specially in Shri Ganesha, it is auspiciousness.
In these modern times, people have lost the sense of auspiciousness.
Everything that emits vibrations,
‘Chaitanya, is auspicious, is ‘Shubh’,
and whatever does not, is not, by any chance, auspicious.
So, first of all, whatever you worship,
whatever you accept,
all of them have to be auspicious things.
Every shape has a coefficience and all these shapes, which you see,
not necessarily give vibrations.
But in the human beings, also,
we find there are many people, like you,
who have ‘Chaitanya’ flowing in them.
But this ‘Chaitanya’ when it flows,
we just take Shri Ganesha for granted.
We do not understand
that we have to awaken Shri Ganesha within us
– means what? What we have to do?
To manifest Shri Ganesha,
we have to do certain amount of Tapasya, Penance.
First we have to say, when we sit for meditation,
that, “I am going to be worthy of Your appreciation.
Make me humble, so that I am appreciated by You,
and my only desire is to please You”.
Then you sit down in complete preparedness,
meditating over your Mooladhara,
putting your attention to it with absolute purity.
Now you have my photograph before you and you tell the photograph that,
“Mother, You are Shri Ganesha.
You give me wisdom and discretion”.
So, attention at the mooladhara chakra,
which is actually below the sacrum bone.
You put your right hand towards the photograph,
and left hand on the Mother Earth.
Now this will tell you that your mind,
or your brain which is full of confusion,
which has no discretion,
which is complicated,
which does the same mistakes again and again,
which does not understand how to cure
the ills of bad feelings,
all that can be cured if you
put your right hand towards me
and the left hand towards the Mother Earth.
He is the ‘essence’ of everything’ that is material,
that has bhava , that has been created.
He is the essence of everything that has been created.
‘Through Him’ everything has been created.
When you develop that, you develop your sense
of subtle creativity,
and the sense of subtle appreciation of creativity.
Then you develop your discretion of how to behave
with others, in a beautiful manner,
so that your ego is controlled.
The behaviour should be such that there should be
no expression of ego in your behaviour.
Now, many people should try this thing:
sitting in a group together, meditating,
saying the mantra of Shri Ganesha, to try to build up.
Those who think too much, they should also try to say
“Not this, not this, not this … “.
Even the superego when it gives you thoughts,
you should say “not this, not this, not this … “.
So you will develop that state
where you stand yourself: and nothing else.
So the innocence plays, but it is not involved.
It sees the play. Just sees.
It enjoys the play.
Just enjoys.
So today when we are thinking of Shri Ganesha,
let us desire that, “Within us
His great power of innocence be enlightened”.
“That let my wisdom shine in my attention.
Let Shri Ganesha throw His light in my attention”.
Mentally you people are very alert, no doubt.
And, you can always cheat yourself nicely.
That’s the point where you could see yourself
– introspection,
Just introspect – ‘Why do I do like that?
Why cannot I meditate?
Am I going to miss out?
Why can I not do
something that is good for me?’
Introspection is the only way you can see yourself
how far you are from Shri Ganesh.
Even, I have seen, when I say something in general,
people always
– the mind is very clever –
thinks that I am talking about somebody else, not about them.
It’s a convex mind, convex,
which never receives anything inside itself
because there is no wisdom.
If you are wise,
then not only that you will accept
but you will understand and it will penetrate
into your attention through your central nervous system.
You just know that this is it.
Now you know that this… you put your hand towards this candle, it…
you’ll… your fingers might burn. You know it definitely, with experience,
and you won’t do that.
With experience you have learnt
not to put hand… your hand on to the candle.
And this wisdom is there; I don’t have to tell you that.
But this is a new life you have started – a spiritual life.
When you are going into the spiritual life,
try to remember your experiences,
one after another – how you got transformed;
how you changed; how many the bad things that you had
disappeared gradually and how you have become so nice.
This will take away your depression – to begin with.
Then you should think that, ‘what do I have to do further?
Am I really wise, or I am stupid?’
After getting your self-realization,
when Shri Ganesha is shining in your attention,
you should see your reflection clearly
and try to correct it.
Only this much wisdom if you have that,
‘I have to work out my benevolence,’ you’ll do it.